# Table of Content

- [Table of Content](#table-of-content)
- [List of Changes](#list-of-changes)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Purpose](#purpose)
    - [Audience](#audience)
    - [Scope](#scope)
- [vRA Cloud (Saas)](#vra-cloud-saas)
  - [Managing Users in vRA Cloud](#managing-users-in-vra-cloud)
    - [Tokens](#tokens)
    - [Input File](#input-file)
  - [vRA Cloud Roles](#vra-cloud-roles)
  - [Access levels](#access-levels)
  - [Procedure](#procedure)
- [vRA On-prem](#vra-on-prem)
- [Role Privileges](#role-privileges)

# List of Changes

|    Date    |   TOS   |   Issue   | Author | Description |
|------------|---------|-----------|--------|-------------|
| 14.10.2021 | VCS 1.0 |     | Margo Piliukh | First version |
| 15.12.2022 | VCS 1.7 | CESDHC-5203 | Aamod Aithal K B | Added role for vra-on-prem |
| 22.12.2022 | VCS 1.7 | CESDHC-5203 | Kanchan Pardeshi | vRA On-prem role updates |

## Introduction

### Purpose

Manage vRA users and roles in VCS.

### Audience

- VCS Operations

### Scope

For vRA Cloud, below task are not in scope.

- Full update of user roles (Service Roles can be added in addition to the existing ones, but cannot be selectively removed)
- Adding users to the Provider Organization

# vRA Cloud (Saas)

## Managing Users in vRA Cloud

manageVraCloudUsers.yml playbook can be used for managing users and their org /service roles in vRA Cloud. Below actions can be performed using playbook.

- Adding users to the vRA Cloud tenant orgs
- Assigning users Service roles
- Adding users to the project – prd001 (default project for customers)
- Removing users from the organization
- Adding previously pending users to the project
- Revoke invitation for a user that is not registered in the vRA Cloud and was marked for removal.

### Tokens

Tokens will be generated for 1h and have a timestamp. Role required in VMware Cloud Partner Navigator organization to generate the ```Provider Organization token``` are-   **Provider Administrator**, **Provider Operations Administrator**, or **Provider Account Administrator**

It is advised to run this playbook with a tag – *step1* or *step2*.
Step 1 includes a task of adding users to the project and will append and not overwrite the list of pending users.

### Input File

Input file needs to be provided for the playbook execution. Refer sample input csv file in the **files** folder of the role or [here](files/vraCloudUserInputForm.csv).

Service section can be left empty if the  Organization Role selected is Customer Administrator. In that case the user will be assigned all available Service Roles automatically.  If its required to add more than one Service role for a particular user, use **”|”** with no spaces:

> Example: Cloud Assembly Administrator|Service Broker User

Input data in .csv format should be copied to /tmp directory in ```vraUsers.csv``` file. This is a prerequisite of successful import of the data and the playbook will prompt to make sure that file is present before executing playbook.

## vRA Cloud Roles

| Organizational Role |
|:---------|
| Customer Administrator |
| Customer Billing Administrator |
| Customer User|

| Service Role|
|:---------|
| Cloud Assembly Administrator |
| Cloud Assembly User |
| Cloud Assembly Viewer |
| Service Broker Administrator |
| Service Broker User |
| Service Broker Viewer |

## Access levels

Access to the services is multilevel: users need to be added to the organization with specified organizational roles, assigned Service Endpoints and Service role as well as be added to a project to have access to the functionalities of a particular service (e.g. user with Cloud Assembly User role will not see any deployments unless added to the project).

Tenant Admin organizational role automatically assigns all available service roles for Cloud Assembly and Service Broker. Leave the Service field empty when selecting Customer Administrator Organization Role. Service field can be also left empty if need to remove a user from a service.

## Procedure

Only registered users can be added to the project. Playbook consists of two steps.

**Step 1** includes generation of 2 tokens for **Provider** and **Tenant Organizations**. Adding/removing users to tenant organization with assigned service roles, adding already registered users to the project.  Playbook will maintain list of pending invitations under */tmp/vraCloudManagement* in a file ```pendingVraUsers.csv``` generated by the playbook.

From ansible server, run playbook with a specified tag:

ansible-playbook manageVraCloudUsers.yml --tags step1

**Step 2** includes generation of 2 tokens for **Provider** and **Tenant Organizations**, checking the list of current pending invitations and adding the users who are no longer pending to the project. The ```pendingVraUsers.csv``` file is updated. Step 2 can be repeated as many times as necessary.

ansible-playbook manageVraCloudUsers.yml --tags step2

Notes- This playbook requires two tokens to send the APIs and make all required changes: Provider Organization token and Tenant Organization token.
These tokens will be obtained using role: **dhc-createVraCloudTokenProvider**.

# vRA On-prem

Customer security group of vRA users - "dhc-vra-service-broker-users"  will be added to vRA during vRA on-prem configuration through role- "dhc-configureVraOnPrem"
task- addVraAccessToGroups.yml. No manual configuration is required for managing customer user access to vRA.

Customer security groups will be configured with role "service broker user" which gives access to Service Broker catalog items and resources.

# Role Privileges

Below table describes privilege of each role available in vRA Cloud (SaaS) & vRA on-prem.

| Role | Privileges |
| ----- | ------- |
| Cloud Assembly Administrator | A user who has read and write access to the entire user interface and API resources. This is the only user role that can see and do everything, including add cloud accounts, create new projects, and assign a project administrator. |
| Service Broker Administrator | Must have read and write access to the entire user interface and API resources. This is the only user role that can perform all tasks, including creating a new project and assigning a project administrator. |
| Cloud Assembly User | A user who does not have the Cloud Assembly Administrator role. In a Cloud Assembly project, the administrator adds users to projects as project members, administrators, or viewers. The administrator can also add a project administrator. |
| Service Broker User | Any user who does not have the Service Broker Administrator role. In a Service Broker project, the administrator adds users to projects as project members, administrators, or viewers. The administrator can also add a project administrator. |
| Cloud Assembly Viewer | A user who has read access to see information but cannot create, update, or delete values. This is a read-only role across all projects in all the services.Users with the viewer role can see all the information that is available to the administrator. They cannot take any action unless you make them a project administrator or a project member. If the user is affiliated with a project, they have the permissions related to the role. The project viewer would not extend their permissions the way that the administrator or member role does. |
| Service Broker Viewer | A user who has read access to see information but cannot create, update, or delete values. This is a read-only role across all projects in all the services. Users with the viewer role can see all the information that is available to the administrator. They cannot take any action unless you make them a project administrator or a project member. If the user is affiliated with a project, they have the permissions related to the role. The project viewer would not extend their permissions the way that the administrator or member role does. |
